There are a total of 5 functions in the code.
1.  The printboard function includes a nested for loop which iterates through every element in the 2d array. Additional "|" and spaces are written for         formatting. lines like "\033..." are used to color code the written text.
2.  The checkGameOver function checks if the game is over or not and returns a bool value. Returns true if the game is over and false otherwise. The first     nested for loop iterates through every element to check if the 2048 is reached, upon fulfilling the condtion the game ends with a message of game won. 3.  The next nested for loops check every element with 3 conditions, the first checks if are no 0s remaining to move to and the rest of the two are             comparing the element and the next element of that index, if they can be merged the game continues.
4.  The addTile function randomly generates rows and columns by the help of % and then checks if there is a 0 at that index, it then goes to take a random     number between 0 and 1, if its a 0, 2 is added and 4 is added if its a 1.
5.  The shift function contains the 4 move and merge tile loops which are called according to the move input to the function,
    MOVE UP: this is a nested loop that keeps k as an index to where there is a 0 at a highest point and then it moves through the column, checking               different rows, if there is a non zero element the element is moved to the postion of k and k is then updated by 1. it then checks if the numbers are       equal and k is not the initial index, and then it adds the 2 numbers, since the numbers are same, multiplying with 2 works. 
    MOVE DOWN: works the same as move up except it is inverted, instead of starting from first row, it starts with the last and works its way up.
    MOVE Right: works the same, except is iterates through rows instead of columns and checks every column of a row, then moves to the next row.
    MOVE LEFT: works the same as move right, except instead of going from left to right, it goes right to left, starting with the last column.
    At the end of the Function a addtile is called to add a random tile to the board.
6.  The main function clears the screen and goes into a while loop which takes input whether to play, show instructions or quit. If else is dealing with       the options respectively. If the user selects play, score is reset to 0, a new board is generated with 0s and then 2 random tiles are added to it in       the beginnning by calling the addTile function twice. It then proceeds to the game by printing the initial board state and then asking for input in a       while loops that ends if the gameOverFunction returns true. Wrong input is handled in here by using switch cases. After the tiles have been moved and       merged the board is printed on a cleared screen again. 
